# ShortestVectorProblem

# Managing Memory and Time in Future Cryptography: the Shortest Vector Problem
# Background
This project focuses on the Shortest Vector Problem (SVP), a critical computational task with significant implications in lattice-based cryptography and computational mathematics. SVP is essential in various domains like error-correcting codes, network design, signal processing, and combinatorial optimization, with relevance extending to quantum computing, coding theory, integer programming, and more.

The core challenge in SVP is to find the shortest nonzero vector in a given lattice, a discrete set of points in ğ‘›-dimensional space formed by linear combinations of a set of basis vectors. This problem is foundational for secure lattice-based cryptographic systems and is crucial in the realm of post-quantum cryptography.

# Problem Definition
The Shortest Vector Problem (SVP) involves finding a short vector within a lattice - a discrete and periodic grid-like structure in ğ‘›-dimensional Euclidean space. The lattice ğ¿ is generated by a set of linearly independent basis vectors {ğ‘1, ğ‘2, ..., ğ‘ğ‘›}. The objective is to identify a nonzero lattice vector ğ‘£ âˆˆ ğ¿ such that its Euclidean norm ||ğ‘£||â‚‚ is minimized. Formally, the task is to find a vector ğ‘£ âˆˆ ğ¿, ğ‘£ â‰  0, such that ||ğ‘£||â‚‚ is minimized.

# Implementation
Describe your implementation approach here. Include information about:

Algorithms used
Memory management techniques
Runtime optimization strategies
Any libraries or tools utilized
# Requirements
List any prerequisites or dependencies for your project, such as:

C
External libraries
Hardware requirements

# Installation and Usage

bash
```
git clone https://github.com/zaccheus-lines/ShortestVectorProblem
cd ShortestVectorProblem
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

# Configuration
Explain how to configure the project, if applicable. For example, setting the dimensionality of the lattice, input formats, etc.

# Testing
Detail how to run any tests included with your project. Mention any test datasets or benchmarks used.

# Contact
zaccheus.lines@hotmail.com